ZTRUST Working Group                                          2026-05-04

ZTRUST Working Group meeting minutes for 2026 May the Fourth.

attendees:

* Berry van Sleeuwen
* Lyz Joseph
* Brian Hugenbruch
* Rick Troth

## Easy Code Signing with PGP

Rick presented a script based on findings from last week.
His employer (VSSI) is soon to release a product which will have
RPM and Debian packaging as well as VMARC. All of these are easily
signed using `gpg`. What follows needs to be put into formal markdown.

A "detached" signature does not alter the file being signed.
The downside is that the signature is in a separate file, so there are
(at least) two files to carry. Never the less, detached signatures are
common and popular.

To sign a file with "armor", use the command ...

    gpg --armor --detach-sign file-to-sign

The result will be a secondary file with extension `.asc`.

To sign a file without "armor" (that is, binary), use the command ...

    gpg --detach-sign file-to-sign

The result will be a secondary file with extension `.sig`.

RPM packaging supports an internal signature.
Sign an RPM package file with the command ...

    rpmsign --addsign package-file.rpm

On the receiving end, verify the signature with ...

    rpm --checksig package-file.rpm

For package verification, RPM maintains its own keyring.
Add the public key of interest with the command ...

    rpm --import public-key-file

(Above will require privileges.)

## Linux Foundation Zoom Room

Lyz walked the group through establishing meetings via the LF web site,
which includes Zoom scheduling and has a record option. We will be
using Zoom in up-coming meetings as a trial.

## ZTRUST at VM Workshop

Rick roped Brian into assisting with the ZTRUST presentation at the
up-coming VM Workshop at VCU in Richmond, Virginia. Rick and Brian will
meet to plan the pitch and to hammer-out the presentation.


