ZTRUST Working Group                                          2026-04-27

ZTRUST Working Group meeting minutes for 2026 April 27 (Monday).

attendees:

* Brian Hugenbruch
* Lyz Joseph
* Mike MacIsaac
* Rick Troth

## Calendar Fun

Rick changed the Google Calendar entry and Google (again)
changed the meeting URL. After that swizzle, the new URL is ...

https://meet.google.com/mns-zvad-kyf

Lyz suggested using Open Mainframe Project Zoom infrastructure.
Rick will initiate email with John Mertic and Tom Slanda and Lyz
to move that direction.

## Meeting Frequency

Frequency of meetings was mentioned again.
Rick suggested that we should slow down after the VM Workshop.

## ZTRUST at VM Workshop

There will be a ZTRUST presentation at the VM Workshop. Rick and Brian
discussed the possibility of a PGP key signing as a BOF (not as a
formal session). Brian will socialize that among workshop organizers.

## What about SSH?

SSH was discussed. Rick added an `ssh` sub-directory alongside
`pki` and `pgp`. But public keys for SSH are more about authorizing
foreigners to sign-on to your system. A collection of SSH public keys
doesn't fit ZTRUST objectives. Never the less, SSH is one of the
Big Three major systems and services used in contemporary computing
which employ asymmetric cryptography. So SSH is a documentation topic.

This is a little muddy because at lease one "trust" group
appears to be using SSH-style key pairs but for trust
rather than for SSH sign-on.

## Colin's Blog

Ahead of the call, Colin shared two blog entries.
One of them illustrates verifying files using PKI.

https://colinpaice.blog/2026/04/24/how-do-you-validate-files-on-z-os-at-install-time-and-long-term/

We still don't have a shell script, but the recipe is taking shape.

## SSL Implementations and Variants

Rick began a doc (under the `pki` sub-directory)
enumerating SSL/TLS implementations. This was motivated by the
recent release of LibreSSL 4.3.1.


